{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;\red243\green235\blue0;\red255\green255\blue51;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c0;\csgenericrgb\c95294\c92157\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c20000;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18600\viewh11440\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 SCENE THREE\
\
The restaurant.  Roma is seated alone at the booth.  Lingk\
is at the booth next to him.  Roma is talking to him.\
\
                         ROMA\
            ...all these booths smell\
            vaguely of shit.  It gets so you\
            don't mind it.  That's the worst\
            thing that I can confess.  You know\
            how long it took me to get there?\
            A long time.  When you die you're\
            going to regret the things you\
            don't do.  You think you're queer...?\
            I'm going to tell you something:\
            we're all queer.  You think that\
            you're a prostitute?  So what?  \cb2 You get\
            befuddled by a middle-class\
            morality...\cb1 ?  Get shut of it.  Shut\
            it out.  You cheated on your\
            wife...?  You did it, live with it.\
                   (pause)\
            You fuck little girls, so be it.\
            There's an absolute morality?  May\
            be.  And then what?  If you think\
            there is, then be that thing.  Bad\
            people go to hell?  I don't think\
            so.  If you think that, act that\
            way.  A hell exists on earth?  Yes.\
            I won't work in it.  That's me.\
            You ever take a dump made you feel\
            you'd just slept for twelve hours...?\
\
                         LINGK\
            Did I...?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Yes.\
\
                         LINGK\
            I don't know.\
\page \
                                                           34.\
\
\
                         ROMA\
            Or a piss...?  \cb2 A great meal fades\
            in reflection.\cb1   Everything else\
            gains.  You know why? 'Cause it's\
            only \cb3 art\cb1 .  This shit we look at, it\
            keeps us going.  But it's only art.\
            The great fucks that you may have\
            had.  What do you remember about\
            them?\
\
                         LINGK\
            What do I...?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Yes.\
\
                         LINGK\
            Mmmm...\
\
                         ROMA\
            I don't know.  For me, I'm saying,\
            what is is, it's probably not the\
            orgasm.  Some broads, forearms on\
            your neck, something her eyes did.\
            There was a sound she made...or,\
            me, lying, in the, I'll tell you:\
            me lying in bed; the next day she\
            brought me a resume.  She gives\
            me a consumer\cb3  grade electronic vaporizer pen, \cb1 \
	\cb3  my balls feel like concrete. \cb1  Eh?  What I'm saying,\
            what is our life?\
                   (pause)\
            It's looking forward or it's\
            looking back.  And that's our life.\
            That's it.  Where is the contemporary?\
                   (pause)\
            And what is it that we're afraid of?\
            Obscurity.  What else?\
                   (pause)\
            The bank closes.  We get sick, my\
            art handler died on a plane, the art\
            market collapsed\'85Notre Dame burnt\
            down...what of these happen...?\
            None on 'em.  We worry anyway.\
            What does this mean?  I'm not\
            secure.  How can I be secure?\
                   (pause)\
            Through amassing culture beyond all\
            capital?  No.  And what's beyond\
            all capital?  That's a non-profit.\
            That's a front.  There is no capital.\
            Only culture.  How can we \cb3 perform\cb1 ?\
                         (MORE)\
\page \
                                                           35.\
\
\
                         ROMA (CONT'D)\
          \cb3   The right way, we would say, to\
            deal with this: "There is a one-in-\
            a-million chance that so and so\
            will peak\'85Fuck it, they won't\
            break out of grad school\'85\cb1 \'94 No.  We know\
            that's not the right way I think.\
                   (pause)\
            We say the correct way to deal with\
            this is "There is a one-in-so-and-\
            so chance this will happen\'85institution\
            protect me.  I am powerless, let it\
            not happen to me..." But no to that.\
            I say.  There's something else.\
            What is it? "If it happens, AS IT\
            MAY for that is not within our\
            \cb3 influence\cb1 , I will deal with it, just\
            as I do today with what draws my\
            \cb4 discourse\cb1  today." I say this is how\
            we must \cb3 perform\cb1 .  I do those things\
            which seem \cb3 highly critically relevant\cb1  to me today.  I\
            trust myself.  And if \cb3 historical relevance\cb1 \
            concerns me, I do that which today\
            I think will make me \cb3 secure\cb1 .  And\
            every day I do that, when that day\
            arrives that I need a \cb3 reserve\cb1 , [a]\
            odds are that I have it, and [b]\
            \cb3 the true reserve that I have is the\
            strength that I have of acting each\
            day without fear.\cb1 \
                   (pause)\
           \cb3  According to the dictates of my\
            mind.\cb1 \
                   (pause)\
            \cb3 Stocks, bonds, objects of art, real\
            estate.  Now: what are they?\cb1 \
                   (pause)\
            An opportunity.  To what?  \cb3 To make\
            money?  Perhaps.  To lose money?\
            Perhaps.  To "indulge" and to\
            "learn" about ourselves?  Perhaps.\
            So fucking what?  What isn't?\
            They're an opportunity.  That's all.\
            They're an event.  A guy comes up\
            to you, you make a call, you send\
            in a brochure, it doesn't matter,\
            "There're these properties I'd like\
            for you to see." What does it mean?\
            What you want it to mean.\cb1 \
                         (MORE)\
\page \
                                                           36.\
\
\
                         ROMA (CONT'D)\
                   (pause)\
            Money?\
                   (pause)\
            If that's what it signifies to you.\
            Security?\
                   (pause)\
            Comfort?\
                   (pause)\
            All it is is \cb3 THINGS THAT HAPPEN TO\
            YOU.\cb1 \
                   (pause)\
            That's all it is.  How are they\
            different?\
                   (pause)\
\cb3             Some poor newly married guy gets\
            run down by a cab.  Some busboy\
            wins the lottery.\
                   (pause)\
            All it is, it's a carnival.  What's\
            special...what draws us?\
\cb1                    (pause)\
            We're all different.\
                   (pause)\
            We're not the same.\
                   (pause)\
            We are not the same.\
                   (pause)\
            Hmmm.\
                   (pause, sighs)\
            It's been a long day.\
                   (pause)\
            What are you drinking?\
\
                         LINGK\
            \cb3 Press releases\cb1 .\
\
                         ROMA\
            Well, let's have a couple more.  My\
            name is Richard Roma, what's yours?\
\
                         LINGK\
            Lingk.  James Lingk.\
\
                         ROMA\
            James.  I'm glad to meet you.\
                   (they shake hands)\
            I'm glad to meet you, James.\
                   (pause)\
            I want to show you something.\
                   (pause)\
            It might mean nothing to you...and\
            it might not.\
                         (MORE)\
\page \
                                                           37.\
\
\
                         ROMA (CONT'D)\
            I don't know.  I don't know anymore.\
                   (pause.  \cb3 He takes out\
                   a small map and\
                   spreads it on a table)\cb1 \
            What is that? \cb3  Florida.  Glengarry\
            Highlands.  Florida. "Florida.\
            Bullshit." And maybe that's true;\
            and that's what I said: but look\
            here: what is this?  This is a\
            piece of land.  Listen to what I'm\
            going to tell you now:\
\
The real estate office.  Ransacked.  A broken plateglass\
window boarded up, glass all over the floor.  Aaronow and\
Williamson standing around, smoking.\
\cb1 \
Pause.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            People used to say that there are\
            numbers of such magnitude that\
            multiplying them by two made no\
            difference.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Who used to say that?\
\
                         AARONOW\
\cb3             Baudrillard.\
\cb1 \
Pause.  Baylen, a detective, comes out of the inner office.\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Alright...?\
\
Roma enters from the street.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Williamson...Williamson, they stole\
            the \cb3 contracts\cb1 ...?\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Excuse me, sir...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Did they get my \cb3 contracts\cb1 ?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            They got...\
\page \
                                                           38.\
\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Excuse me, fella.\
\
                         ROMA\
            ...did they...\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Would you excuse us, please...?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Don't fuck with me, fella.  I'm\
            talking about a fuckin' \cb3 Cadillac\
            car that you owe me...\cb1 \
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
\cb3             They didn't get your contract.  I\
            filed it before I left.\
\
                         ROMA\
            They didn't get my contracts.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            They--excuse me...\
\cb1 \
He goes back into inner room with the Detective.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Oh, fuck.  Fuck.\
                   (he starts kicking\
                   the desk)\
            FUCK FUCK FUCK!  WILLIAMSON!!!\
            WILLIAMSON!!!\
                   (goes to the door\
                   Williamson went into,\
                   tries the door; it's locked)\
            OPEN THE FUCKING...WILLIAMSON...\
\
                         BAYLEN\
                   (coming out)\
            Who are you?\
\
Williamson comes out.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            They didn't get the \cb3 contracts\cb1 .\
\
                         ROMA\
            Did they...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            They got, listen to me...\
\
                         ROMA\
            The...\
\page \
                                                           39.\
\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Listen to me: They got some of them.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Some of them...\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Who told you...?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Who told me wh...?  You've got a\
            fuckin', you've...a...who is\
            this...?  \cb3 You've got a board-up on\
            the window...\cb1 Moss told me.\
\
                         BAYLEN\
                   (looking back toward\
                   the inner office)\
            Moss...Who told him?\
\
                         ROMA\
            How the fuck do I know?\
                   (to Williamson)\
            What...talk to me.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            They took some of the con...\
\
                         ROMA\
            ...some of the contracts...Lingk.\
            James Lingk.  I closed...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            You closed him yesterday.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Yes.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            It went down.  I filed it.\
\
                         ROMA\
            You did?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Yes.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Then I'm over the fucking top and\
            you owe me a Cadillac.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            I...\
\page \
                                                           40.\
\
\
\cb3                          ROMA\
            And I don't want any fucking shit\
            and I don't give a shit, Lingk puts\
            me over the top, you filed it,\
            that's fine, any other shit kicks\
            out you go back.  You...you reclose\
            it, 'cause I closed it and you...you\
            owe me the car.\
\
\cb1                          BAYLEN\
            Would you excuse us, please.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            I, um, and may...maybe they're in...\
            they're in...you should, John, if\
            we're ins...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            I'm sure that we're insured,\
            George...\
                   (going back inside)\
\
\
                         ROMA\
            Fuck insured.  You owe me a car.\
\
                         BAYLEN\
                   (stepping back into\
                   the inner room)\
            Please don't leave.  I'm going to\
            talk to you.  What's your name?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Are you talking to me?\
\
Pause.\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Yes.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         ROMA\
            My name is Richard Roma.\
\
Baylen goes back into the inner room.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            I, you know, they should be insured.\
\
                         ROMA\
            What do you care...?\
\page \
                                                           41.\
\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Then, you know, they wouldn't be so\
            ups...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Yeah.  That's swell.  Yes.  You're\
            right.\
                   (pause)\
            How are you?\
\
            \cb3              AARONOW\
            I'm fine.  You mean the board?  You\
            mean the board...?\
\
                         ROMA\
            I don't...yes.  Okay, the board.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm fucked on the\
            board.  You.  You see how...I...\
                   (pause)\
            I can't...my mind must be in other\
            places. 'Cause I can't do any...\
\
                         ROMA\
            What?  You can't do any what?\
\cb1 \
Pause.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            I can't close 'em.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Well, they're old.  I saw the shit\
            that they were giving you.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Yes.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Huh?\
\
                        \cb3  AARONOW\
            Yes.  They are old.\
\
                         ROMA\
            They're ancient.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Clear...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Clear Meadows.  That shit's dead.\
\cb1 \page \
                                                           42.\
\
\
Pause.\
\
                         \cb3 AARONOW\
            It is dead.\
\
                         ROMA\
            It's a waste of time.\
\cb1 \
                         AARONOW\
            Yes.\
                   (long pause)\
            I'm no fucking good.\
\
                         ROMA\
            That's...\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Everything I...you know...\
\
                         ROMA\
            That's not...Fuck that shit, George.\
            You're a, hey, you had a bad month.\
            You're a good man, George.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            I am?\
\
                         ROMA\
         \cb4    You hit a bad streak.  We've all...\
            look at this: fifteen units Mountain\
            View, the fucking things get stole.\cb1 \
\
                         AARONOW\
            He said he filed...\
\
                         ROMA\
            \cb3 He filed half of them, he filed the\
            big one. \cb1  All the little ones, I\
            have, I have to go back and...ah,\
            fuck, I got to go out like a\
            fucking schmuck hat in my hand and\
            reclose the...\
                   (pause)\
            I mean, talk about a bad streak.\
            That would sap anyone's self\
            confi... I got to go out and\
            reclose all my... Where's the \cb3 phones\cb1 ?\
\
                         AARONOW\
            They stole...\
\
                         ROMA\
            They stole the...\
\page \
                                                           43.\
\
\
                         AARONOW\
            What.  \cb3 What kind of outfit are we\
            running where...where anyone...\cb1 \
\
                         ROMA\
\cb3                    (to himself)\
\cb1             They stole the phones.\
\
                         AARONOW\
\cb3             Where criminals can come in here...\
            they take the...\
\
                         ROMA\
            They stole the phones.  They stole\
            the leads.  They're...Christ.\
\cb1                    (pause)\
            What am I going to do this month?\
            Oh, shit...\
                   (starts for the door)\
\
\
                         AARONOW\
            You think they're going to catch...\
            where are you going?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Down the street.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
                   (sticking his head\
                   out of the door)\
            Where are you going?\
\
                         ROMA\
            To the \cb3 restaura\cb1 ...what do you\
            fucking...?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Aren't you going out today?\
\
                         ROMA\
            With what?\
                   (pause)\
            With what, John, they took the\
            \cb3 leads\cb1 ...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            I have the stuff from last year's...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Oh.  Oh.  Oh, your "nostalgia"\
            file, they's fine.  No.  Swell.\
            'Cause I don't have to...\
\page \
                                                           44.\
\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            ...you want to go out today...?\
\
                         ROMA\
            '\cb3 Cause I don't have to eat this\
            month.  No.  Okay.  Give 'em to\
            me...\cb1 \
                   (to himself)\
            Fucking Mitch and Murray going to\
            shit a br...what am I going to do\
            all...\
\
Williamson starts back into the office.  He is accosted by\
Aaronow.\
\
                         AARONOW\
          \cb3   Were the leads...\cb1 \
\
                         ROMA\
\cb3             ...what am I going to do all month...\
\cb1 \
                         AARONOW\
            Were the leads insured?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            I don't know, George, why?\
\
                         AARONOW\
            'Cause, you know, 'cause they\
            weren't, I know that Mitch and\
            Murray uh...\
\
Pause.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            What?\
\
                         AARONOW\
            That they're going to be upset.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            That's right.\
                   (going back into his\
                   office.  Pause.  To Roma)\
            You want to go out today...?\
\
Pause.  Williamson returns to his office.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            He said we're all going to have to\
            go talk to the guy.\
\
                         ROMA\
            What?\
\page \
                                                           45.\
\
\
                         AARONOW\
            He said we...\
\
                         ROMA\
            To the \cb3 feds\cb1 ?\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Yeah.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Yeah.  That's swell.  Another waste\
            of \cb3 time\cb1 .\
\
                         AARONOW\
            A waste of time?  Why?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Why? 'Cause they aren't going to\
            find the guy.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            The \cb3 feds\cb1 ?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Yes.  The \cb3 feds\cb1 .  No.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            They aren't?\
\
                         ROMA\
            No.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Why don't you think so?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Why?  Because they're stupid.\
            "Where were you last night..."\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Where were you?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Where was I?\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Yes.\
\
                         ROMA\
            I was at \cb3 home\cb1 , where were you?\
\
                         AARONOW\
            At \cb3 home\cb1 .\
\page \
                                                           46.\
\
\
                         ROMA\
            See...?  Were you the guy who broke\
            in?\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Was I?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Yes.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            No.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Then don't sweat it, George, you\
            know why?\
\
                         AARONOW\
            No.\
\
                         ROMA\
            You have nothing to hide.\
\
                         AARONOW\
                   (pause)\
            When I talk to the \cb3 government\cb1 , I get\
            nervous.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Yeah.  You know who doesn't?\
\
                         AARONOW\
            No, who?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Thieves.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Why?\
\
                         ROMA\
            They're inured to it.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            You think so?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Yes.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            But what should I tell them?\
\page \
                                                           47.\
\
\
                         ROMA\
            The truth, George.  Always tell the\
            truth.  It's the easiest thing to\
            remember.\
\
Williamson comes out of the office with leads.  Roma takes\
one, reads it.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Patel?  Ravidam Patel?  How am I\
            going to make a living on\cb3  thses\
            deadbeat wogs?  Where did you get\
            this, from the morgue?\cb1 \
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            If you don't want it, give it back.\
\
                         ROMA\
            I don't "want" it, if you catch my\
            drift.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            I'm giving you three leads.  You...\
\
                         ROMA\
            What's the fucking point in any\
            case...?  What's the point.  I got\
            to argue with you, I got to knock\
            heads with the \cb3 cops\cb1 , I'm busting my\
            balls, \cb3 sell you dirt to fucking\
            deadbeats money in the mattress, I\
\cb1             come back you can't even manage to\
            keep the contracts safe, I have to\
            go back and close them again...What\
            the fuck am I wasting my time, fuck\
            this shit.  I'm going out and\
            reclose last week's...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            The word from Murray is: leave them\
            alone.  If we need a new signature\
            he'll go out himself, he'll be the\
            president, just come in, from out\
            of town...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Okay, okay, okay, gimme this shit.\
            Fine.\
                   (takes the leads)\
\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Now, I'm giving you three...\
\page \
                                                           48.\
\
\
                         ROMA\
            Three?  I count two.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Three.\
\
                         ROMA\
         \cb3    Patel?  Fuck you.  Fuckin' Shiva\
            handed him a million dollars, told\
            him "sign the deal," he wouldn't\
            sign.  And Vishnu, too.  Into the\
            bargain.  Fuck that, John.  You\
            know your business, I know mine.\
            Your business is being an asshole,\
            and I\cb1  find out whose fucking cousin\
            you are, I'm going to go to him and\
            figure out a way to have your ass...\
            fuck you--I'll wait for the new\
            leads.\
\
Shelly Levene enters.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            \cb3 Get the chalk.  Get the chalk...get\
            the chalk!  I closed 'em!  I closed\
            the cocksucker.  Get the chalk and\
            put me on the board.  I'm going to\
            Hawaii!  Put me on the Cadillac\
            board, Williamson!  Pick up the\
            fuckin' chalk.  Eight units.\
            Mountain View...\
\cb1 \
                         ROMA\
            You sold eight Mountain View?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            You bet your ass.  Who wants to go\
            to lunch?  Who wants to go to lunch?\
            I'm buying.\cb3 \
                   (slaps contract down\
                   on Williamson's desk)\
            Eighty-two fucking grand.  And\
            twelve grand in commission.  John.\
                   (pause)\
            On fucking deadbeat magazine\
            subscription leads.\
\cb1 \
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Who?\
\page \
                                                           49.\
\
\
                         LEVENE\
                   (pointing to contract)\
            Read it.  Bruce and Harriett Nyborg.\
                   (looking around)\
            What happened here?\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Fuck.  I had them on River Glen.\
\
Levene looks around.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            What happened?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Somebody broke in.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Eight units?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            That's right.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Shelly...!\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Hey, big fucking deal.  Broke a bad\
            streak...\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Shelly, the Machine, Levene.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            You...\
\
                         AARONOW\
            That's great.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Thank you, George.\
\
Baylen sticks his head out of the room; calls in, "Aaronow."\
Aaronow goes into the side room.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Williamson, get on the phone, call\
            Mitch...\
\
                         ROMA\
            They took the phones...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            They...\
\page \
                                                           50.\
\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Aaronow...\
\
                         ROMA\
            They took the typewriters, they\
            took the leads, they took the cash,\
            they took the contracts...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Wh...wh...Wha...?\
\
                         AARONOW\
            We had a robbery.\
                   (goes into the inner room)\
\
\
                         LEVENE\
                   (pause)\
            When?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Last night, this morning.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            They took the leads?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Mmm.\
\
Moss comes out of the interrogation.\
\
                         MOSS\
            Fuckin' asshole.\
\
                         ROMA\
            What, they beat you with a rubber\
            bat?\
\
                         MOSS\
            Cop couldn't find his dick two\
            hands and a map.  Anyone talks to\
            this guy's an asshole...\
\
                         ROMA\
            You going to turn State's?\
\
                         MOSS\
            Fuck you, Ricky.  I ain't going out\
            today.  I'm going home.  I'm going\
            home because nothing's accomplished\
            here...Anyone talks to this guy is...\
\page \
                                                           51.\
\
\
                         ROMA\
            Guess what the Machine did?\
\
                         MOSS\
            Fuck the Machine.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Mountain View.  Eight units.\
\
                         MOSS\
            Fuckin' cop's got no right talk to\
            me that way.  I didn't rob the\
            place...\
\
                         ROMA\
            You hear what I said?\
\
                         MOSS\
            Yeah.  He closed a deal.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Eight units.  Mountain View.\
\
                         MOSS\
                   (to Levene)\
            You did that?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Yeah.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         MOSS\
            Fuck you.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Guess who?\
\
                         MOSS\
            When...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Just now.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Guess who?\
\
                         MOSS\
            You just this morning...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Harriet and blah blah Nyborg.\
\page \
                                                           52.\
\
\
                         MOSS\
            You did that?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Eighty-two thousand dollars.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         MOSS\
            Those fuckin' deadbeats...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            My ass.  I told 'em.\
                   (to Roma)\
            Listen to this: I said...\
\
                         MOSS\
            Hey, I don't want to hear your\
            fucking war stories...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Fuck you, Dave...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            "You have to believe in yourself...\
            you"--look--"alright...?"\
\
                         MOSS\
                   (to Williamson)\
            Give me some leads.  I'm going\
            out... I'm getting out of...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            "...you have to believe in\
            yourself..."\
\
                         MOSS\
            Na, fuck the leads, I'm going home.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            "Bruce, Harriet...Fuck me, believe\
            in yourself..."\
\
                         ROMA\
            We haven't got a lead...\
\
                         MOSS\
            Why not?\
\
                         ROMA\
            They took 'em...\
\page \
                                                           53.\
\
\
                         MOSS\
            Hey, they're fuckin' garbage any\
            case...This whole goddamn...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            "...You look around, you say, 'This\
            one has so-and-so, and I have\
            nothing..."\
\
                         MOSS\
            Shit.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            "'Why?  Why don't I get the\
            opportunities...?"\
\
                         MOSS\
            And did they steal the contracts...?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Fuck you care...?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            "I want to tell you something,\
            Harriet..."\
\
                         MOSS\
            ...the fuck is that supposed to\
            mean...?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Will you shut up, I'm telling you\
            this...\
\
Aaronow sticks his head out.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Can we get some coffee...?\
\
                         MOSS\
            How ya doing?\
\
Pause.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Fine.\
\
                         MOSS\
            Uh-huh.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            If anyone's going, I could use some\
            coffee.\
\page \
                                                           54.\
\
\
                         LEVENE\
            "You do get the..."\
                   (to Roma)\
            Huh?  Huh?\
\
                         MOSS\
            Fuck is that supposed to mean?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            "You do get the opportunity...You\
            get them.  As I do, as anyone\
            does..."\
\
                         MOSS\
            Ricky?...That I don't care they\
            stole the contracts?\
\
Pause.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            I got 'em in the kitchen.  I'm\
            eating her crumb cake.\
\
                         MOSS\
            What does that mean?\
\
                         ROMA\
            It means, Dave, you haven't closed\
            a good one in a month, none of my\
            business, you want to push me to\
            answer you.\
                   (pause)\
            And so you haven't got a contract\
            to get stolen or so forth.\
\
                         MOSS\
            You have a mean streak in you,\
            Ricky, you know that...?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Rick.  Let me tell you.  Wait,\
            we're in the...\
\
                         MOSS\
            Shut the fuck up.\
                   (pause)\
            Ricky.  You have a mean streak in\
            you...\
                   (to Levene)\
            And what the fuck are you babbling\
            about...?\
                         (MORE)\
\page \
                                                           55.\
\
\
                         MOSS (CONT'D)\
                   (to Roma)\
            Bring that shit up.  Of my volume.\
            You were on a bad one and I brought\
            it up to you you'd harbor it.\
                   (pause)\
            You'd harbor it a long long while.\
            And you'd be right.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Who said "Fuck the Machine"?\
\
                         MOSS\
            "Fuck the Machine"? "Fuck the\
            Machine"?  What is this.  Courtesy\
            class...?  You're fucked, Rick--are\
            you fucking nuts?  You're hot, so\
            you think you're the ruler of this\
            place...?!  You want to...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Dave...\
\
                         MOSS\
            ...Shut up.  Decide who should be\
            dealt with how?  Is that the thing?\
            I come into the fuckin' office\
            today, I get humiliated by some\
            jagoff cop.  I get accused of...I\
            get this shit thrown in my face by\
            you, you geniune shit, because\
            you're top name on the board...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Is that what I did?  Dave?  I\
            humiliated you?  My God...I'm\
            sorry...\
\
                         MOSS\
            Sittin' on top of the world,\
            sittin' on top of the world,\
            everything's fucking peachfuzz...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Oh, and I don't get a moment to\
            spare for a bust-out humanitarian\
            down on his luck lately.  Fuck you,\
            Dave, you know you got a big mouth,\
            and you make a close the whole\
            place stinks with your farts for a\
            week. "How much you just ingested,"\
            what a big man you are, "Hey, let\
            me buy you a pack of gum.\
                         (MORE)\
\page \
                                                           56.\
\
\
                         ROMA (CONT'D)\
            I'll show you how to chew it." Your\
            pal closes, all that comes out of\
            your mouth is bile, how fucked up\
            you are...\
\
                         MOSS\
            Who's my pal...?  And what are you,\
            Ricky, huh, what are you, Bishop\
            Sheean?  Who the fuck are you, Mr.\
            Slick...?  What are you, friend to\
            the workingman?  Big deal.  Fuck\
            you, you got the memory a fuckin'\
            fly.  I never liked you.\
\
                         ROMA\
            What is this, your farewell speech?\
\
                         MOSS\
            I'm going home.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Your farewell to the troops?\
\
                         MOSS\
            I'm not going home.  I'm going to\
            Wisconsin.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Have a good trip.\
\
                         MOSS\
                   (simultaneously with "trip")\
            And fuck you.  Fuck the lot of you.\
            Fuck you all.\
\
Moss exits.  Pause.\
\
                         ROMA\
                   (to Levene)\
            You were saying?\
                   (pause)\
            Come on.  Come on, you got them in\
            the kitchen, you got the stats\
            spread out, you're in your shirt-\
            sleeves, you can smell it.  Huh?\
            Snap out of it, you're eating her\
            crumb cake.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            I'm eating her crumb cake...\
\page \
                                                           57.\
\
\
                         ROMA\
            How was it...?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            From the store.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Fuck her...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            "What we have to do is admit to\
            ourself that we see that\
            opportunity...and take it.\
                   (pause)\
            And that's it." And we sit there.\
                   (pause)\
            I got the pen out...\
\
                         ROMA\
            "Always be closing..."\
\
                         LEVENE\
            That's what I'm saying.  The old\
            ways.  The old ways...convert the\
            motherfucker...sell him...sell\
            him... make him sign the check.\
                   (pause)\
            The...Bruce, Harriet...the kitchen,\
            blah: they got their money in\
            government bonds...I say fuck it,\
            we're going to go the whole route.\
            I plat it out eight units.  Eighty-\
            two grand.  I tell them. "This is\
            now.  This is that thing that\
            you've been dreaming of, you're\
            going to find that suitcase on the\
            train, the guy comes in the door,\
            the bag that's full of money.  This\
            is it, Harriett..."\
\
                         ROMA\
                   (reflectively)\
            Harriett...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Bruce..."I don't want to fuck\
            around with you.  I don't want to\
            go round this, and pussyfoot around\
            the thing, you have to look back on\
            this.  I do, too.  I came here to\
            do good for you and me.  For both\
            of us.  Why take an interim position?\
                         (MORE)\
\page \
                                                           58.\
\
\
                         LEVENE (CONT'D)\
            The only arrangement I'll accept is\
            full investment.  Period.  The\
            whole eight units.  I know that\
            you're saying 'be safe,' I know\
            what you're saying.  I know if I\
            left you to yourselves, you'd say\
            'come back tomorrow,' and when I\
            walked out that door, you'd make a\
            cup of coffee...you'd sit down...and\
            you'd think 'let's be safe...' and\
            not to disappoint me you'd go one\
            unit or maybe two, because you'd\
            become scared because you'd met\
            possibility.  But this won't do,\
            and that's not the subject..."\
            Listen to this, I actually said\
            this. "That's not the subject of\
            our evening together." Now I handed\
            them the pen.  I held it in my hand.\
            I turned the contract, eight units\
            eighty-two grand. "Now I want you\
            to sign."\
                   (pause)\
            I sat there.  Five minutes.  Then,\
            I sat there, Ricky, twenty-two\
            minutes by the kitchen clock.\
                   (pause)\
            Twenty-two minutes by the kitchen\
            clock.  Not a word, not a motion.\
            What am I thinking? "My arm's\
            getting tired?" No.  I did it.  I\
            did it.  Like in the old says,\
            Ricky.  Like I was taught... Like,\
            like, like I used to do...I did it.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Like you taught me...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Bullshit, you're...No.  That's\
            raw... well, if I did, then I'm\
            glad I did.  I, well.  I locked on\
            them.  All on them, nothing on me.\
            All my thoughts are on them.  I'm\
            holding the last thought that I\
            spoke: "Now is the time."\
                   (pause)\
            They signed, Ricky.  It was great.\
            It was fucking great.  It was like\
            they wilted all at once.  No\
            gesture...nothing.  Like together.\
                         (MORE)\
\page \
                                                           59.\
\
\
                         LEVENE (CONT'D)\
            They, I swear to God, they both\
            kind of imperceptibly slumped.  And\
            he reaches and takes the pen and\
            signs, he passes it to her, she\
            signs.  It was so fucking solemn.\
            I just let it sit.  I nod like this.\
            I nod again.  I grasp his hands.  I\
            shake his hands.  I grasp her hands.\
            I nod at her like this.\
            "Bruce...Harriet..." I'm beaming at\
            them.  I'm nodding like this.  I\
            point back in the living room, back\
            to the sideboard.\
                   (pause)\
            I didn't fucking know there was a\
            sideboard there!!  He goes back, he\
            brings us a drink.  Little shot\
            glasses.  A pattern in 'em.  And we\
            toast.  In silence.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         ROMA\
            That was a great sale, Shelly.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Ah, fuck.  Leads!  Leads!\
            Williamson!\
                   (Williamson sticks\
                   his head out of the office)\
            Send me out!  Send me out!\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            The leads are coming.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Get 'em to me!\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            I talked to Murray and Mitch an\
            hour ago.  They're coming in, you\
            understand they're a bit upset over\
            this morning's...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Did you tell 'em my sale?\
\page \
                                                           60.\
\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            How could I tell 'em your sale?  Eh?\
            I don't have a tel...I'll tell 'em\
            your sale when they bring in the\
            leads.  Alright?  Shelly.  Alright?\
            We had a little... You closed a\
            deal.  You made a good sale.  Fine.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            It's better than a good sale.  It's\
            a...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Look: I have a lot of things on my\
            mind, they're coming in, alright,\
            they're very upset, I'm trying to\
            make some sense...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            All that I'm telling you: that one\
            thing you can tell them it's a\
            remarkable sale.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            The only thing remarkable is who\
            you made it to.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            What does that fucking mean?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            That if the sale sticks, it will be\
            a miracle.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Why should the sale not stick?\
            Hey, fuck you.  That's what I'm\
            saying.  You have no idea of your\
            job.  A man's his job and you're\
            fucked at yours.  You hear what I'm\
            saying to you?  Your "end of month\
            board..." You can't run an office.\
            I don't care.  You don't know what\
            it is, you don't have the sense,\
            you don't have the balls.  You ever\
            been on a sit?  Ever?  Has this\
            cocksucker ever been...you ever sit\
            down with a cust...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            I were you, I'd calm down, Shelly.\
\page \
                                                           61.\
\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Would you?  Would you...?  Or\
            you're gonna what, fire me?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            It's not impossible.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            On an eighty-thousand dollar day?\
            And it ain't even noon.\
\
                         ROMA\
            You closed 'em today?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Yes.  I did.  This morning.\
                   (to Williamson)\
            What I'm saying to you: things can\
            change.  You see?  This is where\
            you fuck up, because this is\
            something you don't know.  You\
            can't look down the road.  And see\
            what's coming.  Might be someone\
            else, John.  It might be someone\
            new, eh?  Someone new.  And you\
            can't look back. 'Cause you don't\
            know history.  You ask them.  When\
            we were at Rio Rancho, who was top\
            man?  A month...?  Two months...?\
            Eight months in twelve for three\
            years in a row.  You know what that\
            means?  You know what that means?\
            Is that luck?  Is that some, some,\
            some purloined leads?  That's skill.\
            That's talent, that's, that's...\
\
                         ROMA\
            ...yes...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            ...and you don't remember. 'Cause\
            you weren't around.  That's cold\
            calling.  Walk up to the door.  I\
            don't even know their name.  I'm\
            selling something they don't even\
            want.  You talk about soft sell...\
            before we had a name for it...before\
            we called it anything, we did it.\
\
                         ROMA\
            That's right, Shel.\
\page \
                                                           62.\
\
\
                         LEVENE\
            And, and, and, I did it.  And I put\
            a kid through school.\
            She...and...Cold calling, fella.\
            Door to door.  But you don't know.\
            You don't know.  You never heard of\
            a streak.  You never heard of\
            "marshaling your sales force..."\
            What are you, you're a secretary,\
            John.  Fuck you.  That's my message\
            for you.  Fuck you and kiss my ass.\
            You don't like it, I'll go talk to\
            Jerry Graff.  Period.  Fuck you.\
            Put me on the board.  And I want\
            three worthwhile leads today and I\
            don't want any bullshit about them\
            and I want 'em close together\
            'cause I'm going to hit them all\
            today.  That's all I have to say to\
            you.\
\
                         ROMA\
            He's right, Williamson.\
\
Williamson goes into a side office.  Pause.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            It's not right.  I'm sorry, and\
            I'll tell you who's to blame is\
            Mitch and Murray.\
\
Roma sees something outside the window.\
\
                         ROMA\
                   (sotto)\
            Oh, Christ.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            The hell with him.  We'll go to\
            lunch, the leads won't be up for...\
\
                         ROMA\
            You're a client.  I just sold you\
            five waterfront Glengarry Farms.  I\
            rub my head, throw me the cue\
            "Kenilworth."\
\
                         LEVENE\
            What is it?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Kenilw...\
\
Lingk enters the office.\
\page \
                                                           63.\
\
\
                         ROMA\
                   (to Levene)\
            I own the property, my mother owns\
            the property, I put her into it.\
            I'm going to show you on the plats.\
            You look when you get home A-3\
            through A-14 and 26 through 30.\
            You take your time and if you still\
            feel.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            No, Mr. Roma.  I don't need the\
            time, I've made a lot of investments\
            in the last...\
\
                         LINGK\
            I've got to talk to you.\
\
                         ROMA\
                   (looking up)\
            Jim!  What are you doing here?  Jim\
            Lingk, D. Ray Morton...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Glad to meet you.\
\
                         ROMA\
            I just put Jim into Black\
            Creek...are you acquainted with...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            No...Black Creek.  Yes.  In Florida?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Yes.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            I wanted to speak with you about...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Well, we'll do that this weekend.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            My wife told me to look into...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Beautiful.  Beautiful rolling land.\
            I was telling Jim and Jinny, Ray, I\
            want to tell you something.\
                   (to Levene)\
            You, Ray, you eat in a lot of\
            restaurants.  I know you do...\
                         (MORE)\
\page \
                                                           64.\
\
\
                         ROMA (CONT'D)\
                   (to Lingk)\
            Mr. Morton's with American Express...\
            he's...\
                   (to Levene)\
            I can tell Jim what you do...?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Sure.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Ray is director of all European\
            sales and services for American\
            Ex...\
                   (to Levene)\
            But I'm saying you haven't had a\
            meal until you've tasted...I was at\
            the Lingks' last...as a matter of\
            fact, what was that service feature\
            you were talking about...?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Which...\
\
                         ROMA\
            "Home Cooking"...what did you call\
            it, you said it...it was a tag\
            phrase that you had,,,\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Uh...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Home...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Home cooking...\
\
                         ROMA\
            The monthly interview...?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Oh!  For the magazine...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Yes.  Is this something that I can\
            talk ab...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Well, it isn't coming out until the\
            February iss...sure.  Sure, go\
            ahead, Ricky.\
\page \
                                                           65.\
\
\
                         ROMA\
            You're sure?\
\
                         LEVENE\
                   (nods)\
            Go ahead.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Well, Ray was eating at one of his\
            company's men's home in France...the\
            man's French, isn't he?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            No, his wife is.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Ah.  Ah, his wife is.  Ray: what\
            time do you have...?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Twelve-fifteen.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Oh!  My God...I've got to get you\
            on the plane!\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Didn't I say I was taking the two\
            o'...\
\
                         ROMA\
            No.  You said the one.  That's why\
            you said we couldn't talk till\
            Kenilworth.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Oh, my God, you're right!  I'm on\
            the one...\
                   (getting up)\
            Well, let's scoot...\
\
                         LINGK\
            I've got to talk to you...\
\
                         ROMA\
            I've got to get Ray to O'Hare...\
                   (to Levene)\
            Come on, let's hustle...\
                   (over his shoulder)\
            John!  Call American Express in\
            Pittsburgh for Mr. Morton, will\
            you, tell them he's on the one\
            o'clock.\
                         (MORE)\
\page \
                                                           66.\
\
\
                         ROMA (CONT'D)\
                   (to Lingk)\
            I'll see you...Christ, I'm sorry\
            you came all the way in...I'm\
            running Ray over to O'Hare...You\
            wait here, I'll...no.\
                   (to Levene)\
            I'm meeting your man at the bank...\
                   (to Lingk)\
            I wish you'd phoned...I'll tell\
            you, wait: are you and Jinny going\
            to be home tonight?\
                   (rubs forehead)\
\
\
                         LINGK\
            I...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Rick.\
\
                         ROMA\
            What?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Kenilworth...?\
\
                         ROMA\
            I'm sorry...?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Kenilworth.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Oh, God...Oh, God...\
                   (Roma takes Lingk\
                   aside, sotto)\
            Jim, excuse me...Ray, I told you,\
            who he is is the senior vice-\
            president American Express.  His\
            family owns 32 per...Over the past\
            years I've sold him...I can't tell\
            you the dollar amount, but quite a\
            lot of land.  I promised five weeks\
            ago that I'd go to the wife's\
            birthday party in Kenilworth\
            tonight.\
                   (sighs)\
            I have to go.  You understand.\
            They treat me like a member of the\
            family, so I have to go.\
                         (MORE)\
\page \
                                                           67.\
\
\
                         ROMA (CONT'D)\
            It's funny, you know, you get a\
            picture of the Corporation-Type\
            Company Man, all business...this\
            man, no.  We'll go out to his home\
            sometime.  Let's see.\
                   (he checks his datebook)\
            Tomorrow.  No.  Tomorrow, I'm in\
            L.A....Monday...I'll take you to\
            lunch, where would you like to go?\
\
                         LINGK\
            My wife...\
\
Roma rubs his head.\
\
                         LEVENE\
                   (standing in the door)\
            Rick...?\
\
                         ROMA\
            I'm sorry, Jim.  I can't talk now.\
            I'll call you tonight...I'm sorry.\
            I'm coming, Ray.\
                   (starts for the door)\
\
\
                         LINGK\
            My wife said I have to cancel the\
            deal.\
\
                         ROMA\
            It's a common reaction, Jim.  I'll\
            tell you what it is, and I know\
            that that's why you married her.\
            One of the reasons is prudence.\
            It's a sizable investment.  One\
            thinks twice...it's also something\
            women have.  It's just a reaction\
            to the size of the investment.\
            Monday, if you'd invite me for\
            dinner again...\
                   (to Levene)\
            This woman can cook...\
\
                         LEVENE\
                   (simultaneously)\
            I'm sure she can...\
\page \
                                                           68.\
\
\
                         ROMA\
                   (to Lingk)\
            We're going to talk.  I'm going to\
            tell you something.  Because\
                   (sotto)\
            there's something about your\
            acreage I want you to know.  I\
            can't talk about it now.  I really\
            shouldn't.  And, in fact, by law,\
            I...\
                   (shrugs, resigned)\
            The man next to you, he bought his\
            lot at forty-two, he phoned to say\
            that he'd already had an offer...\
\
Roma rubs his head.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Rick...?\
\
                         ROMA\
            I'm coming, Ray...what a day!  I'll\
            call you this evening, Jim.  I'm\
            sorry you had to come in...Monday,\
            lunch.\
\
                         LINGK\
            My wife...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Rick, we really have to go.\
\
                         LINGK\
            My wife...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Monday.\
\
                         LINGK\
            She called the consumer...the\
            attorney, I don't know.  The\
            attorney gen...they said we have\
            three days...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Who did she call?\
\
                         LINGK\
            I don't know, the attorney gen...\
            the...some consumer office, um...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Why did she do that, Jim?\
\page \
                                                           69.\
\
\
                         LINGK\
            I don't know.\
                   (pause)\
            They said we have three days.\
                   (pause)\
            They said we have three days.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Three days.\
\
                         LINGK\
            To...you know.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         ROMA\
            No, I don't know.  Tell me.\
\
                         LINGK\
            To change our minds.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Of course you have three days.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         LINGK\
            So we can't talk Monday.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Jim, Jim, you saw my book...I\
            can't, you saw my book...\
\
                         LINGK\
            But we have to before Monday.  To\
            get our money ba...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Three business days.  They mean\
            three business days.\
\
                         LINGK\
            Wednesday, Thursday, Friday.\
\
                         ROMA\
            I don't understand.\
\
                         LINGK\
            That's what they are.  Three\
            business...I wait till Monday, my\
            time limit runs out.\
\page \
                                                           70.\
\
\
                         ROMA\
            You don't count Saturday.\
\
                         LINGK\
            I'm not.\
\
                         ROMA\
            No, I'm saying you don't include\
            Saturday...in your three days.\
            It's not a business day.\
\
                         LINGK\
            But I'm not counting it.\
                   (pause)\
            Wednesday.  Thursday.  Friday.  So\
            it would have elapsed.\
\
                         ROMA\
            What would have elapsed?\
\
                         LINGK\
            If we wait till Mon...\
\
                         ROMA\
            When did you write the check?\
\
                         LINGK\
            Yest...\
\
                         ROMA\
            What was yesterday?\
\
                         LINGK\
            Tuesday.\
\
                         ROMA\
            And when was that check cashed?\
\
                         LINGK\
            I don't know.\
\
                         ROMA\
            What was the earliest it could have\
            been cashed?\
\
Pause.\
\
                         LINGK\
            I don't know.\
\page \
                                                           71.\
\
\
                         ROMA\
            Today.\
                   (pause)\
            Today.  Which, in any case, it was\
            not, as there were a couple of\
            points on the agreement I wanted to\
            go over with you in any case.\
\
                         LINGK\
            The check wasn't cashed?\
\
                         ROMA\
            I just called downtown, and it's on\
            their desk.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Rick...\
\
                         ROMA\
            One moment, I'll be right with you.\
                   (to Lingk)\
            In fact, a...one point, which I\
            spoke to you of which\
                   (looks around)\
            I can't talk to you about here.\
\
Detective puts his head out of the doorway.\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Levene!!!\
\
                         LINGK\
            I, I...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Listen to me, the statute, it's for\
            your protection.  I have no\
            complaints with that, in fact, I\
            was a member of the board when we\
            drafted it, so quite the opposite.\
            It says that you can change your\
            mind three working days from the\
            time the deal is closed.\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Levene!\
\
                         ROMA\
            Which, wait a second, which is not\
            until the check is cashed.\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Levene!!\
\page \
                                                           72.\
\
\
Aaronow comes out of the Detective's office.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            I'm through, with this fucking\
            meshugaas.  No one should talk to a\
            man that way.  How are you talking\
            to me that...?\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Levene!\
\
Williamson puts his head out of the office.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            ...how can you talk to me that...\
            that...\
\
                         LEVENE\
                   (to Roma)\
            Rick, I'm going to flag a cab.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            I didn't rob...\
\
Williamson sees Levene.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Shelly: get in the office.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            I didn't...why should I..."Where\
            were you last..." Is anybody\
            listening to me...?  Where's\
            Moss...?  Where...?\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Levene?\
                   (to Williamson)\
            Is this Lev...\
\
Baylen accosts Lingk.\
\
                         LEVENE\
                   (taking Baylen into\
                   the office)\
            Ah.  Ah.  Perhaps I can advise you\
            on that...\
                   (to Roma and Lingk,\
                   as he exits)\
            Excuse us, will you...?\
\page \
                                                           73.\
\
\
                         AARONOW\
                   (simultaneous with\
                   Levene's speech above)\
            ...Come in here...I work here, I\
            don't come in here to be\
            mistreated...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Go to lunch, will you...\
\
                         AARONOW\
            I want to work today, that's why I\
            came...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            The leads come in, I'll let...\
\
                         AARONOW\
            ...that's why I came in.  I thought\
            I...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Just go to lunch.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            I don't want to go to lunch.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Go to lunch, George.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Where does he get off to talk that\
            way to a working man?  It's not...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
                   (buttonholes him)\
            Will you take it outside, we have\
            people trying to do business here...\
\
                         AARONOW\
            That's what, that's what, that's\
            what I was trying to do.\
                   (pause)\
            That's why I came in...I meet\
            gestapo tac...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
                   (going back into his office)\
            Excuse me...\
\page \
                                                           74.\
\
\
                         AARONOW\
            I meet gestapo tactics...I meet\
            gestapo tactics...That's not\
            right... No man has the right\
            to..."Call an attorney," that means\
            you're guilt... you're under\
            sus..."Co...," he says, "cooperate"\
            or we'll go downtown.  That's\
            not...as long as I've...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
                   (bursting out of his office)\
            Will you get out of here.  Will you\
            get out of here.  Will you.  I'm\
            trying to run an office here.  Will\
            you go to lunch?  Go to lunch.\
            Will you go to lunch?\
                   (retreats into office)\
\
\
                         ROMA\
                   (to Aaronow)\
            Will you excuse...\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Where did Moss...?  I...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Will you excuse us please?\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Uh, uh, did he go to the restaurant?\
                   (pause)\
            I...I...\
                   (exits)\
\
\
                         ROMA\
            I'm very sorry, Jimmy.  I apologize\
            to you.\
\
                         LINGK\
            It's not me, it's my wife.\
\
                         ROMA\
                   (pause)\
            What is?\
\
                         LINGK\
            I told you.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Tell me again.\
\page \
                                                           75.\
\
\
                         LINGK\
            What's going on here?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Tell me again.  Your wife.\
\
                         LINGK\
            I told you.\
\
                         ROMA\
            You tell me again.\
\
                         LINGK\
            She wants her money back.\
\
                         ROMA\
            We're going to speak to her.\
\
                         LINGK\
            No.  She told me "right now."\
\
                         ROMA\
            We'll speak to her, Jim...\
\
                         LINGK\
            She won't listen.\
\
Detective sticks his head out.\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Roma.\
\
                         LINGK\
            She told me if not, I have to call\
            the State's attorney.\
\
                         ROMA\
            No, no.  That's just something she\
            "said." We don't have to do that.\
\
                         LINGK\
            She told me I have to.\
\
                         ROMA\
            No, Jim.\
\
                         LINGK\
            I do.  If I don't get my money\
            back...\
\
Williamson points out Roma to Baylen.\
\page \
                                                           76.\
\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Roma!\
                   (to Roma)\
            I'm talking to you...\
\
                         ROMA\
            I've...look.\
                   (generally)\
            Will someone get this guy off my\
            back.\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            You have a problem?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Yes, I have a problem.  Yes, I do,\
            my fr...It's not me that ripped the\
            joint off, I'm doing business.\
            I'll be with you in a while.  You\
            got it...?\
                   (looks back.  Lingk\
                   is heading for the door)\
            Where are you going?\
\
                         LINGK\
            I'm...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Where are you going...?  This is\
            me...This is Ricky, Jim.  Jim,\
            anything you want, you want it, you\
            have it.  You understand?  This is\
            me.  Something upset you.  Sit\
            down, now sit down.  You tell me\
            what it is.\
                   (pause)\
            Am I going to help you fix it?\
            You're goddamned right I am.  Sit\
            down.  Tell you something...?\
            Sometimes we need someone from\
            outside.  It's...no, sit down...Now\
            talk to me.\
\
                         LINGK\
            I can't regotiate.\
\
                         ROMA\
            What does that mean?\
\
                         LINGK\
            That...\
\page \
                                                           77.\
\
\
                         ROMA\
            ...what, what, say it.  Say it to\
            me...\
\
                         LINGK\
            I...\
\
                         ROMA\
            What...?\
\
                         LINGK\
            I...\
\
                         ROMA\
            What...?  Say the words.\
\
                         LINGK\
            I don't have the power.\
                   (pause)\
            I said it.\
\
                         ROMA\
            What power?\
\
                         LINGK\
            The power to negotiate.\
\
                         ROMA\
            To negotiate what?\
                   (pause)\
            To negotiate what?\
\
                         LINGK\
            This.\
\
                         ROMA\
            What, "this"?\
\
Pause.\
\
                         LINGK\
            The deal.\
\
                         ROMA\
            The "deal," forget the deal.\
            Forget the deal, you've got\
            something on your mind, Jim, what\
            is it?\
\
                         LINGK\
                   (rising)\
            I can't talk to you, you met my\
            wife, I...\
\page \
                                                           78.\
\
\
Pause.\
\
                         ROMA\
            What?\
                   (pause)\
            What?\
                   (pause)\
            What, Jim: I tell you what, let's\
            get out of here...let's go get a\
            drink.\
\
                         LINGK\
            She told me not to talk to you.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Let's...no one's going to know,\
            let's go around the corner and\
            we'll get a drink.\
\
                         LINGK\
            She told me I had to get back the\
            check or call the State's att...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Forget the deal, Jimmy.\
                   (pause)\
            Forget the deal...you know me.  The\
            deal's dead.  Am I talking about\
            the deal?  That's over.  Please.\
            Let's talk about you.  Come on.\
                   (pause.  Roma rises\
                   and starts walking\
                   toward the front door)\
            Come on.\
                   (pause)\
            Come on, Jim.\
                   (pause)\
            I want to tell you something.  Your\
            life is your own.  You have a\
            contract with your wife.  You have\
            certain things you do jointly, you\
            have a bond there...and there are\
            other things.  Those things are\
            yours.  You needn't feel ashamed,\
            you needn't feel that you're being\
            untrue...or that she would abandon\
            you if she knew.  This is your life.\
                   (pause)\
            Yes.  Now I want to talk to you\
            because you're obviously upset and\
            that concerns me.  Now let's go.\
            Right now.\
\
Lingk gets up and they start for the door.\
\page \
                                                           79.\
\
\
                         BAYLEN\
                   (sticks his head out\
                   of the door)\
            Roma...\
\
                         LINGK\
            ...and...and...\
\
Pause.\
\
                         ROMA\
            What?\
\
                         LINGK\
            And the check is...\
\
                         ROMA\
            What did I tell you?\
                   (pause)\
            What did I say about the three\
            days...?\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Roma, would you, I'd like to get\
            some lunch...\
\
                         ROMA\
            I'm talking with Mr. Lingk.  If you\
            please, I'll be back in.\
                   (checks watch)\
            I'll be back in a while...I told\
            you, check with Mr. Williamson.\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            The people downtown said...\
\
                         ROMA\
            You call them again.  Mr.\
            Williamson...!\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Yes.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Mr. Lingk and I are going to...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Yes.  Please.  Please.\
                   (to Lingk)\
            The police\
                   (shrugs)\
            can be...\
\page \
                                                           80.\
\
\
                         LINGK\
            What are the police doing?\
\
                         ROMA\
            It's nothing.\
\
                         LINGK\
            What are the police doing here...?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            We had a slight burglary last night.\
\
                         ROMA\
            It was nothing...I was assuring Mr.\
            Lingk...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Mr. Lingk.  James Lingk.  Your\
            contract went out.  Nothing to...\
\
                         ROMA\
            John...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Your contract went out to the bank.\
\
                         LINGK\
            You cashed the check?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            We...\
\
                         ROMA\
            ...Mr. Williamson...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Your check as cashed yesterday\
            afternoon.  And we're completely\
            insured, as you know, in any case.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         LINGK\
                   (to Roma)\
            You cashed the check?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Not to my knowledge, no...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            I'm sure we can...\
\page \
                                                           81.\
\
\
                         LINGK\
            Oh, Christ...\
                   (starts out the door)\
            Don't follow me...Oh, Christ.\
                   (pause, to Roma)\
            I know I've let you down.  I'm\
            sorry.  For...Forgive...for...I\
            don't know anymore.\
                   (pause)\
            Forgive me.\
\
Lingk exits.  Pause.\
\
                         ROMA\
                   (to Williamson)\
            You stupid fucking cunt.  You,\
            Williamson...I'm talking to you,\
            shithead...You just cost me six\
            thousand dollars.\
                   (pause)\
            Six thousand dollars.  And one\
            Cadillac.  That's right.  What are\
            you going to do about it?  What are\
            you goin to do about it, asshole.\
            You fucking shit.  Where did you\
            learn your trade.  You stupid\
            fucking cunt.  You idiot.  Whoever\
            told you you could work with men?\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Could I...\
\
                         ROMA\
            I'm going to have your job, shithead.\
            I'm going downtown and talk to\
            Mitch and Murrray, and I'm going to\
            Lemkin.  I don't care whose nephew\
            you are, who you know, whose dick\
            you're sucking on.  You're going\
            out, I swear to you, you're going...\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Hey, fella, let's get this done...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Anyone in this office lives on\
            their wits...\
                   (to Baylen)\
            I'm going to be with you in a\
            second.\
                   (to Williamson)\
            What you're hired for is to help\
            us--does that seem clear to you?\
                         (MORE)\
\page \
                                                           82.\
\
\
                         ROMA (CONT'D)\
            To help us.  Not to fuck us up...to\
            help men who are going out there to\
            try to earn a living.  You fairy.\
            You company man...I'll tell you\
            something else.  I hope you knocked\
            the joint off, I can tell our\
            friend here something might help\
            him catch you.\
                   (starts into the room)\
            You want to learn the first rule\
            you'd know if you ever spent a day\
            in your life...you never open your\
            mouth till you know what the shot\
            is.\
                   (pause)\
            You fucking child...\
\
Roma goes to the inner room.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            You are a shithead, Williamson...\
\
Pause.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Mmm.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            You can't think on your feet you\
            should keep your mouth closed.\
                   (pause)\
            You hear me?  I'm talking to you.\
            Do you hear me...?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Yes.\
                   (pause)\
            I hear you.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            You can't learn that in an office.\
            Eh?  He's right.  You have to learn\
            it on the streets.  You can't buy\
            that.  You have to live it.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Mmm.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Yes.  Mmm.  Yes.  Precisely.\
            Precisely. 'Cause your partner\
            depends on it.\
                   (pause)\
            I'm talking to you, I'm trying to\
            tell you something.\
\page \
                                                           83.\
\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            You are?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Yes, I am.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            What are you trying to tell me?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            What Roma's trying to tell you.\
            What I told you yesterday.  Why you\
            don't belong in this business.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Why I don't...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            You listen to me, someday you might\
            say, "Hey..." No, fuck that, you\
            just listen what I'm going to say:\
            your partner depends on you.  Your\
            partner...a man who's your "partner"\
            depends on you...you have to go\
            with him and for him...or you're\
            shit, you're shit, you can't exist\
            alone...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
                   (brushing past him)\
            Excuse me...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            ...excuse me, nothing, you be as\
            cold as you want, but you just\
            fucked a good man out of six\
            thousand dollars and his goddamn\
            bonus 'cause you didn't know the\
            shot, if you can do that and you\
            aren't man enough that it gets you,\
            then I don't know what, if you\
            can't take some thing from that...\
                   (blocking his way)\
            you're scum, you're fucking white-\
            bread.  You be as cold as you want.\
            A child would know it, he's right.\
                   (pause)\
            You're going to make something up,\
            be sure it will help or keep your\
            mouth closed.\
\
Pause.\
\page \
                                                           84.\
\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Mmm.\
\
Levene lifts up his arm.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Now I'm done with you.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            How do you know I made it up?\
\
                         LEVENE\
                   (pause)\
            What?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            How do you know I made it up?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            What are you talking about?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            You said, "You don't make something\
            up unless it's sure to help."\
                   (pause)\
            How did you know that I made it up?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            What are you talking about?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            I told the customer that his\
            contracts had gone to the bank.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Well, hadn't it?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            No.\
                   (pause)\
            It hadn't.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Don't fuck with me, John, don't\
            fuck with me...what are you saying?\
\page \
                                                           85.\
\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Well, I'm saying this, Shel:\
            usually I take the contracts to the\
            bank.  Last night I didn't.  How\
            did you know that?  One night in a\
            year I left a contract on my desk.\
            Nobody knew that but you.  Now how\
            did you know that?\
                   (pause)\
            You want to talk to me, you want to\
            talk to someone else...because this\
            is my job.  This is my job on the\
            line, and you are going to talk to\
            me.  Now how did you know that\
            contract was on my desk?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            You're so full of shit.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            You robbed the office.\
\
                         LEVENE\
                   (laughs)\
            Sure!  I robbed the office.  Sure.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            What'd you do with the leads?\
                   (pause, points to the\
                   Detective's room)\
            You want to go in there?  I tell\
            him what I know, he's going to dig\
            up something...You got an alibi\
            last night?  You better have one.\
            What did you do with the leads?  If\
            you tell me what you did with the\
            leads, we can talk.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            I don't know what you are saying.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            If you tell me where the leads are,\
            I won't turn you in.  If you don't,\
            I am going to tell the cop you\
            stole them, Mitch and Murray will\
            see that you go to jail.  Believe\
            me they will.  Now, what did you do\
            with the leads?  I'm walking in\
            that door--you have five seconds to\
            tell me: or you are going to jail.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            I...\
\page \
                                                           86.\
\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            I don't care.  You understand?\
            Where are the leads?\
                   (pause)\
            Alright.\
\
Williamson goes to open the office door.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            I sold them to Jerry Graff.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            How much did you get for them?\
                   (pause)\
            How much did you get for them?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Five thousand.  I kept half.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Who kept the other half?\
\
Pause.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Do I have to tell you?\
                   (pause, Williamson\
                   starts to open the door)\
            Moss.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            That was easy, wasn't it?\
\
Pause.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            It was his idea.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Was it?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            I...I'm sure he got more than the\
            five, actually.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Uh-huh?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            He told me my share was twenty-five.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Mmm.\
\page \
                                                           87.\
\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Okay: I...look: I'm going to make\
            it worth your while.  I am.  I\
            turned this thing around.  I closed\
            the old stuff, I can do it again.\
            I'm the one's going to close 'em.\
            I am!  I am! 'Cause I turned this\
            thing a...I can do that, I can do\
            anyth...last night.  I'm going to\
            tell you, I was ready to Do the\
            Dutch.  Moss gets me, "Do this,\
            we'll get well..." Why not.  Big\
            fuckin' deal.  I'm halfway hoping\
            to get caught.  To put me out of\
            my...\
                   (pause)\
            But it taught me something.  What\
            it taught me, that you've got to\
            get out there.  Big deal.  So I\
            wasn't cut out to be a thief.  I\
            was cut out to be a salesman.  And\
            now I'm back, and I got my balls\
            back...and, you know, John, you\
            have the advantage on me now:\
            Whatever it takes to make it right,\
            we'll make it right.  We're going\
            to make it right.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            I want to tell you something,\
            Shelly.  You have a big mouth.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            What?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            You've got a big mouth, and now I'm\
            going to show you an even bigger\
            one.\
                   (starts toward the\
                   Detective's door)\
\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Where are you going, John?...you\
            can't do that, you don't want to do\
            that...hold, hold on...hold on...\
            wait...wait...wait...\
                         (MORE)\
\page \
                                                           88.\
\
\
                         LEVENE (CONT'D)\
                   (pulls money out of\
                   his pockets)\
            Wait...uh, look...\
                   (starts splitting money)\
            Look, twelve, twenty, two, twen...\
            twenty-five hundred, it's...take it.\
                   (pause)\
            Take it all...\
                   (pause)\
            Take it!\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            No, I don't think so, Shel.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            I...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            No, I think I don't want your money.\
            I think you fucked up my office.\
            And I think you're going away.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            I...what?  Are you, are you, that's\
            why...?  Are you nuts?  I'm...I'm\
            going to close for you, I'm going\
            to...\
                   (thrusting money at him)\
            Here, here, I'm going to make this\
            office...I'm going to be back there\
            Number One...Hey, hey, hey!  This\
            is only the\
            beginning...List...list... listen.\
            Listen.  Just one moment.\
            List...here's what...here's what\
            we're going to do.  Twenty percent.\
            I'm going to give you twenty\
            percent of my sales...\
                   (pause)\
            Twenty percent.\
                   (pause)\
            For as long as I am with the firm.\
                   (pause)\
            Fifty percent.\
                   (pause)\
            You're going to be my partner.\
                   (pause)\
            Fifty percent.  Of all my sales.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            What sales?\
\page \
                                                           89.\
\
\
                         LEVENE\
            What sales...?  I just closed\
            eighty-two grand...Are you\
            fuckin'...I'm back...I'm back, this\
            is only the beginning.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Only the beginning...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Abso...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Where have you been, Shelly?  Bruce\
            and Harriet Nyborg.  Do you want to\
            see the memos...?  They're nuts...\
            they used to call in every week.\
            When I was with Webb.  And we were\
            selling Arizona...they're nuts...did\
            you see how they were living?  How\
            can you delude yours...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            I've got the check...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Forget it.  Frame it.  It's\
            worthless.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            The check's no good?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            You stick around I'll pull the memo\
            for you.\
                   (starts for the door)\
            I'm busy now...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Their check's no good?  They're\
            nuts...?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Call up the bank.  I called them.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            You did?\
\page \
                                                           90.\
\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            I called them when we had the\
            lead... four months ago.\
                   (pause)\
            The people are insane.  They just\
            like talking to salesmen.\
\
Williamson starts for door.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Don't.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            I'm sorry.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Why?\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Because I don't like you.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            John: John:...my daughter...\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Fuck you.\
\
Roma comes out of the Detective's door.  Williamson goes in.\
\
                         ROMA\
                   (to Baylen)\
            Asshole...\
                   (to Levene)\
            Guy couldn't find his fuckin' couch\
            in the living room...Ah, Christ...\
            what a day, what a day...I haven't\
            even had a cup of coffee...Jagoff\
            John opens his mouth he blows my\
            Cadillac...\
                   (sighs)\
            I swear...it's not a world of men...\
            it's not a world of men, Machine...\
            it's a world of clock watchers,\
            bureaucrats, officeholders...what\
            it is, it's a fucked-up\
            world...there's no adventure to it.\
                   (pause)\
            Dying breed.  Yes it is.\
                   (pause)\
            We are the members of a dying breed.\
            That's...that's...that's why we\
            have to stick together.  Shel: I\
            want to talk to you.\
                         (MORE)\
\page \
                                                           91.\
\
\
                         ROMA (CONT'D)\
            I've wanted to talk to you for some\
            time.  For a long time, actually.\
            I said, "The Machine, there's a man\
            I would work with.  There's a\
            man..." You know?  I never said a\
            thing.  I should have, don't know\
            why I didn't.  And that shit you\
            were slinging on my guy today was\
            so good...it...it was, and, excuse\
            me, 'cause it isn't even my place\
            to say it.  It was admirable...it\
            was the old stuff.  Hey, I've been\
            on a hot streak, so what?  There's\
            things that I could learn from you.\
            You eat today?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Me.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Yeah.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Mm.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Well, you want to swing by the\
            Chinks, watch me eat, we'll talk?\
\
                         LEVENE\
            I think I'd better stay here for a\
            while.\
\
Baylen sticks his head out of the room:\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Mr. Levene...?\
\
                         ROMA\
            You're done, come down, and let's...\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Would you come in here, please?\
\
                         ROMA\
            And let's put this together.  Okay?\
            Shel?  Say okay.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         LEVENE\
                   (softly to himself)\
            Huh.\
\page \
                                                           92.\
\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Mr. Levene, I think we have to talk.\
\
                         ROMA\
            I'm going to the Chinks.  You're\
            done, come down, we're going to\
            smoke a cigarette.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            I...\
\
                         BAYLEN\
                   (comes over)\
            ...Get in the room.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Hey, hey, hey, easy friend.  That's\
            the "Machine." That is Shelly "The\
            Machine" Lev...\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Get in the goddamn room.\
\
Baylen starts manhandling Shelly into the room.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Ricky, I...\
\
                         ROMA\
            Okay, okay, I'll be at the resta...\
\
                         LEVENE\
            Ricky...\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            "Ricky" can't help you, pal.\
\
                         LEVENE\
            ...I only want to...\
\
                         BAYLEN\
            Yeah.  What do you want?  You want\
            to what?\
\
He pushes Levene into the room, closes the door behind him.\
Pause.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Williamson: listen to me: when the\
            leads come in...listen to me: when\
            the leads come in I want my top two\
            off the list.  For me.  My usual\
            two.  Anything you give Levene...\
\page \
                                                           93.\
\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            ...I wouldn't worry about it.\
\
                         ROMA\
            Well I'm going to worry about it,\
            and so are you, so shut up and\
            listen.\
                   (pause)\
            I GET HIS ACTION.  My stuff is\
            mine, whatever he gets for himself,\
            I'm talking half.  You put me in\
            with him.\
\
Aaronow enters.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Did they...?\
\
                         ROMA\
            You understand?\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Did they catch...?\
\
                         ROMA\
            Do you understand?  My stuff is\
            mine, his stuff is ours.  I'm\
            taking half of his commissions--\
            now, you work it out.\
\
                         WILLIAMSON\
            Mmm.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Did they find the guy who broke\
            into the office yet?\
\
                         ROMA\
            No.  I don't know.\
\
Pause.\
\
                         AARONOW\
            Did the leads come in yet?\
\
                         ROMA\
            No.\
\
                         AARONOW\
                   (settling into a desk chair)\
            Oh, God, I hate this job.\
\
                         ROMA\
                   (simultaneous with\
                   "job," exiting the office)\
            I'll be at the restaurant.}